♪Opening Song♪
[GINKO]
That's odd.
There's a hole in the mountain.
Ah!
I see now why the locals
consider this mountain sacred.
What an incredible view!
Miss? Some noodles, please.
[PROPRIETRESS]
Yes sir! Two orders, coming up!
[TRAVELER 1]
And a bottle of sake.
Mind if I set
this here, young man?
[GINKO]
Suit yourself.
It's gone.
[VILLAGER 3]
But, someone has to go.
[VILLAGER 4]
What's the use?
We've tried that already.
You know what happened.
[VILLAGER 1]
It would seem unwise.
This time of year especially.
Mujika himself warned us of
the dangers, did he not?
Yes. All the more reason
to worry about his safety.
So What's the problem?
Is there some sort of
trouble on the mountain?
[VILLAGE MEN]
Huh?
[VILLAGER 3]
And you are?
A mushi master.
I noticed something odd
about the mountain earlier.
I thought, perhaps, you might
be in need of my services.
[VILLAGER 2]
A mushi master?
This could be a sign.
[GINKO]
What's going on here?
[VILLAGER 4]
Chief?
[VILLAGE ELDER]
Very well...
Sir, if you are indeed
a mushi master,
we have a favor to ask of you.
We would like you
to locate someone.
Another mushi master,
named Mujika,
who lives on the mountain.
There is a god who
dwells in the mountain,
who has protected our
people for generations.
Mujika is the only person able
to interpret the god's wishes.
He shares this
knowledge with us,
often returning to our
village with instructions,
which we have always followed,
to our great benefit.
One of his instructions strictly
forbids us from traveling deep
into the mountain
during harvest season.
However, when Mujika ceased to
appear on his regular visits,
we felt it necessary
to violate this taboo.
Fearing for his safety,
a group of men set out
in an effort to find him.
Unfortunately, this effort
was in vain.
The men returned from
the mountain suffering
from a mysterious illness.
A consuming fever, from which,
sadly, they did not recover.
[huffs]
There's a strange energy here.
The air is thick with it.
Sweet, bitter... A scent
that sticks to your skin.
This place... is a
light pulse vein.
[GINKO] The river of light flows
strong through these woods.
On top of that,
it's harvest season.
The life force here
is at its peak.
If a person were to wander up
the mountain unprepared,
I can see how they might
easily be overwhelmed by it.
[GINKO] Since this is
a light pulse vein,
there should be a
god in control here.
But if all is not
well with the god,
that could explain
any unusual phenomena.
If I can find this
other mushi master,
he should have some answers.
--[thudding]
--[GINKO] Huh?
[GINKO gasps]
[GINKO] He must be a
boy from the village.
[GINKO]
Hey!
[KODAMA grunts]
[GINKO]
What are you doing here?
[KODAMA]
I have to find Mujika.
I... I'm his apprentice.
[GINKO] Hm... So he has
an apprentice, does he?
[GINKO]
Here. Bite into this.
[KODAMA gasps]
Blech...
That pill should help
to clear your head.
It's a little bitter, though.
Now you tell me!
[GINKO] Right. You sit
here and rest a while.
I'll see if I can't find
your teacher for you.
Uh... Wait, but... but how?
[GINKO]
A mugura bond.
The mugura mushi are,
in a sense,
the "nerves" of the mountain.
If I bond my
consciousness with theirs,
I can feel out
Mujika's presence.
Here they come.
[GINKO]
I don't see him.
He's not here.
Turn around.
The other side of the mountain.
[GINKO]
There!
He's looking this way!
[GINKO]
He severed the mugura bond.
A- Are you okay, mister?
[GINKO]
Interesting...
Come on. He's this way.
[KODAMA]
Uh, really?
[bell chimes]
A bell? Must be time
for evening prayers.
[KODAMA] I don't remember
ever hearing a bell
in that direction.
[GINKO] He should be
somewhere around here.
--[KODAMA gasps] Look!
--[GINKO] Hm?
[MUJIKA]
Hey! Down here!
[KODAMA]
Mujika!
So what then? I mean, after you
fell and hurt your leg.
[MUJIKA]
I managed to sustain myself
on the shrubs and vines nearby.
Fortunately, my bottle
was full when I set out.
The villagers must
be anxious to know
the mountain god's thoughts.
It would seem my carelessness
has caused them undue worry.
Especially, seeing as...
...they sent a fellow
mushi master to my rescue.
I'm Ginko.
[chuckles]
I'm Mujika.
And I'm in your debt,
though a bit embarrassed.
This mountain is my home.
In my youth, I could
have made my way
from base to
summit blindfolded.
But now, to have fallen
from such a familiar path...
I fear my age is
catching up to me.
It saddens me to say, but,
perhaps the time has come
to relinquish my duties.
[GINKO] By which
you mean... "god duties".
[GINKO] The only one
who could have broken
my bond with the
mugura mushi is either
the true god of the mountain,
or a person with
the powers of a god.
My guess is, the unusual
happenings on the mountain
recently are due to the
fact that your injury
has prevented you from
fully utilizing those powers.
[MUJIKA]
Correct.
Though, thanks to you,
I should be able to resume
my duties as of tomorrow,
in spite of my leg.
You can tell the villagers
the mountain will soon
return to normal.
Still. For a human to
assume the role of a god...
How did this come about?
I'm sure you've
realized by now,
this is no ordinary mountain.
It is, of course, a mushi
light pulse vein.
There was once a
rightful god here,
suppressing the
mountain's energy.
Unfortunately, there was
a terrible accident.
A villager killed
the god by mistake.
Soon after,
the waters of the river
began to smell of rice wine
and the vegetation began
to over-ripen and rot.
I, too, was a traveling
mushi master in those days,
my wanderings frequently
leading me through these parts.
When I learned of the
villagers' misfortune,
I took it upon myself to assume
the role of the mountain god.
My wife and I settled here.
Sadly, she died soon after.
The energy of this place
was simply too much for her.
[GINKO] So, you're training this
boy to be the next mountain god?
[MUJIKA]
Yes. That's right.
[GINKO] His knowledge of the
mountain was impressive,
for someone his age.
[MUJIKA]
Yes, well...
...he is a child
of the mountain.
He's walked this terrain
since he took his first steps.
[GINKO]
Hm?
[MUJIKA] Did you notice
the number of children
in the village?
The water that flows from this
mountain has curious properties.
Once of which,
it causes the women
to be especially fertile.
They can't afford to raise
all of the children,
so some are abandoned here
on the mountainside.
Of those, this boy is the
only one who survived.
The others falling
prey to wild beasts.
Sadly, his brothers and sisters
who remained in the village
were claimed by illness
at an early age.
When his parents learned that
their son was still alive,
they insisted on
taking him home.
That was a year ago.
[GINKO]
Seems rather selfish.
[MUJIKA]
Perhaps.
But their feelings
are understandable.
And I believe in the end,
it's for the best.
[bell chimes]
[GINKO]
That bell again...
This late at night?
[MUJIKA]
So, tell me.
Do you have a place
you call home?
Honestly, you strike me as
more the wandering type.
That's right. You see,
I have a tendency...
...to attract mushi.
I can't stay too long in any one
place or it becomes infested.
You can imagine,
I began honing my
mushi exterminating
skills out of necessity.
[MUJIKA] So you have no
choice but to follow the winds,
wherever they may take you.
True.
But as you say, the wandering
life seems to suit me.
Yes, well...
As a man who will never again
leave the shadow
of this mountain,
I must confess,
I'm a bit jealous.
But my wandering
days are long over.
For better or for worse,
this mountain will be the final
resting place for my bones.
[KODAMA] All right, then.
I'll go back to the village
and let the others
know what's going on.
But be careful while I'm gone.
Don't strain yourself.
I'll be fine.
As for you, don't come
back to the mountain
until the harvest
season has passed.
[MUJIKA chuckles]
Well, sir...
I wish you well in your travels.
Thanks. Take care.
[KODAMA]
Say, uh...
I-I'm still
your apprentice, right?
[MUJIKA]
Of course.
Your journey here
from the village
has proven to be valuable
training, has it not?
At this rate, you're going to be
a great mushi master one day.
[KODAMA]
Mm.
[VILLAGER 5]
Hey! It's the mushi master!
And Kodama is with him!
They found Mujika! He's safe!
[VILLAGERS snoring]
[bell chimes]
[gasps]
[GINKO] It seems to
be getting closer.
And not just because
of the wind.
It's something else.
[KODAMA]
Ginko!
I heard it again!
But, there are no bells
like that near the village.
And my parents. They say
they can't hear anything!
I think it might be
some kind of mushi.
[GINKO]
Let me ask you something.
[KODAMA]
Huh?
[GINKO]
Mujika.
Has he taught you how to become
the next mountain god yet?
The what?
The techniques for
performing the god's duties.
You maintain a constant
bond with the mugura,
keeping them inside
your body at all times.
Thus, if the mugura are like
the nerves of the mountain,
you effectively
become the brain.
Even when you're sleeping,
you're aware of
every tree, every rock.
And with practice,
it's possible to use your
control of the mugura
to control the
mountain's energy as well.
No, I... I haven't
learned that yet.
I see.
Well... anyway, you're right.
That bell sound is a mushi.
It's harmless, though.
You should go home
and get some sleep.
[KODAMA]
But, where are you going?
[GINKO] I was just stepping
out for some night air.
That's all.
[GINKO]
It's quiet.
The whole mountain's gone still.
It must be getting
really close now.
Crazy old man.
He's insane to call it here.
[panting]
[GINKO]
Where is he?
[bell chimes]
[GINKO]
Wait, that sounded like it's--
It's coming from the summit!
[pants]
You...
Is something wrong?
You seem troubled.
Your leg. It was never
really injured, was it?
You were hiding at the
bottom of that cliff
so you wouldn't be interrupted
while you summoned a kuchinawa.
[MUJIKA]
I don't know what you mean.
[GINKO]
The hell you don't.
That bell sound that's
been getting closer.
That's the cry of a kuchinawa.
And you know what it wants.
It's a mushi predator.
And it feeds on gods.
Mountain gods, swamp gods,
it devours them so it
can take their place.
But it is also a mushi
which will bring
stability to this place.
Please don't interfere.
The time has come
to pay my debt.
The original god
of this mountain
was a magnificent creature.
It had taken the
shape of a giant boar.
Ancient and proud.
Its death was because of me.
I should have never
uttered my thoughts aloud.
I should have realized--
[GINKO]
Save the details for later.
We need to get you
off this mountain!
[MUJIKA]
It's too late.
The kuchinawa has
already found me.
The role of the mountain god
is best filled by a creature
like the kuchinawa.
It's too difficult
for a human.
The skills I taught Kodama
are merely those he'll need
to survive in this world.
What are you doing?!
[GINKO] I'm releasing
the mugura from your body.
[MUJIKA]
To what end?
It won't do any good.
Believe me, this is the only
way to set things right.
You don't know that.
You still have a choice!
If not for yourself,
then for Kodoma.
[GINKO]
You're like a father to him.
He looks up to you.
He needs you.
You said once before
that you were a little
bit jealous of me.
The truth is, I was
jealous of you, too.
And I'm not going
to just stand here
and let you throw
your life away!
Not like this!
Ginko! No! You'll only
put yourself in danger!
[bell chimes]
[KODAMA]
What is that?
Mujika!
Mujika...!
[VILLAGER 1] Hey! Everyone!
Come quick! It's Mujika!
[VILLAGER chatter]
You're back!
Saku!
It's good to see you.
Yes...
And all of you.
How are things on the mountain?
[VILLAGER 2] Actually, there
have been some strange things
happening since
your last visit.
We're definitely glad
that you're here.
[VILLAGER laugh]
[SAKU'S BROTHER]
Listen Mujika, I was thinking.
Why don't you come live with us?
You know, here in the village.
It'd sure be a great
help having you around.
[MUJIKA]
I'm sorry.
I wish I could, but I can't.
[SAKU'S BROTHER]
Why can't you?
It seems I have a tendency
to attract mushi.
I can't stay too
long in one place.
If I do, it becomes infested.
[SAKU'S BROTHER]
Are you sure?
There must be some way...
Saku, my younger sister,
she's been waiting all this
time for you to come back.
The two of you could
settle down together.
Make a home.
[MUJIKA] There is only one way
that it might be possible
for me to live here.
If I killed the
mountain god.
If I killed it and
ate of its flesh,
I could take its place.
[MUJIKA] Then, I could keep the
mushi away from the mountain
with my mind.
[MUJIKA]
I'm sorry. I want to stay.
But... it's simply
not realistic.
[MUJIKA] My poison.
My map of the god's pathway.
They're gone.
Did I misplace them somehow?
[MUJIKA]
Saku!
Where have you been?
I was... catching dinner.
I brought you some
fresh boar meat.
[MUJIKA gasps]
[SAKU]
If you're hungry,
I'll start preparing
it right away.
Just wait here, all right?
It will be worth it. I promise.
[MUJIKA]
S-Saku...
[SAKU]
Please...
Please... just tell
me you'll stay...
...forever.
[GINKO]
Before I awoke, I saw a vision.
A memory that was not my own.
When I made it to the summit,
I found you unconscious, but...
...there was no
sign of Mujika anywhere.
I searched everyplace
I could think to look,
but I still couldn't find him.
And when I went back to his
cottage, it was gone too.
The strangest part is,
it seems like none of the
villagers even remember
who Mujika was...
That's because he's
been replaced.
When the kuchinawa devours
a god, they do so completely.
As for us, because we were
on the mountain at the time,
our memories are still intact.
Ah. You've already set
out mushi repellent.
You prepared this by yourself?
[KODAMA]
Yeah...
[GINKO]
Well done. I'm impressed.
You remember, right?
I was Mujika's apprentice.
[KODAMA'S MOTHER]
Kodama? You in there?
[KODAMA sobs]
Mm-Hm.
There's a tree the men
can't seem to chop down.
They were wondering if you
might have any suggestions.
[KODAMA]
I'll take a look.
I'll be right back, okay?
Sure. Take your time.
[GINKO grunts]
It's cold...
[MUJIKA]
To what end?
It won't do any good.
Believe me.
This is the only way
to set things right.
[GINKO]
You don't know that!
You still have a choice!
In the end, I guess
he was right.
[GINKO]
It was a noble thing he did.
Though I doubt you care
about his intentions.
[GINKO]
Right, kuchinawa?
Perhaps, as a mighty yawn,
the kuchinawa's voice
rang out one final time.
Then, silently,
it lowered its head,
and tightened its coils
around the mountain.
[NARRATOR]
Next: "One-Eyed Fish"